

Melody Park- BoggleSolver Design Doc

Issue: Segmentation Fault in trie.c

Description: new line character '\0' is being passed into as a node of a trie and when accessing the last character and converting it into lower case value, it is a negative value which results into a Seg Fault because it cannot access a negative value. As a result, the boggle program cannot determine if is a word or not because it isn't matching up. I'm assuming it also has to do with the new line character.

Possible Solution: Do not iterate through the whole string. 


Implementation Design:

	Data Structures implementations: 
		-trie - insertion is O(n) time, but lookup best case is O(logn)
		-hashset - access complexity is only O(1)
		-linkedlist - insertion is also O(1)


The use of these data stuctures increases efficiency of the boggle solver.


The naive solution would be going through the matrix with recursive backtracking (depth first search) and searching through the dictionary linearly(or can put it into a hashset). Worst case would be if the word is not found in the dictionary the search would be O(n) time, but DFS would be O(n^2). So to reduce the searching of the dictionary to terminate immedietly a trie was used, so when searching through the matrix on different combinations, it will stop when a single char is found to not match, or is not a prefix of an existing word.

Design Decisions:
At first I had a 2d boolean matrix that mapped with the actual matrix of visited cells which takes up unneccesary space and instead of taking O(n^2) to make and access the matrix, a hashet was used to put the coordinates of the current row and column so access is instant. If it is in the set, you already visited it. 
In the code: I concantenated the current string by using this
     sLength = strlen(s);
     s[sLength++] = bog_board[row][column];
     s[sLength] = '\0';

but this recquires allocating space in a new array and copying the string over.
instead a linkedlist was used to just add a character at the end which is only O(1) when a reference to the tail is used.

two trie's was used to make sure no duplicates were put into  a list of words. 


Possible more efficient solution:

Using dynamic programming(memoization) to start with the dictionary and search to see if that is in the matrix. 
